ReproducibilityChallenge/doc/README.md, before:

# doc

The artifact contains scripts for installing the necessary dependencies,
downloading and setting up the competition datasets, compiling the executables,
performing runs on the executables, and aggregating results into figures. Due to
the nature of MemXCT, most of the directories contain both CPU and GPU versions.

## Setup and Compiling

To install the necessary dependencies, download the competition datasets, and
compile MemXCT, go to `compile/cpu` or `compile/gpu` and run `./build.sh`. These
assume that you are on similar hardware, running CentOS 7. If not on CentOS, see
the notes about necessary dependencies in `compile/README.md` and use the CPU or
GPU Makefile.

`compile/` additionally contains:

- a GCC vectorization report (`vectorization-report.log`)
  - Note that vectorization on AMD is very limited, so most of the vectorization
    does not fire
- system information files:
  - CPU cluster master node system information (`cpu-master-node-sysinfo.txt`)
  - CPU cluster execute node system information (`cpu-execute-node-sysinfo.txt`)
  - GPU cluster master node system information (`gpu-master-node-sysinfo.txt`)
  - GPU cluster execute node system information (`gpu-execute-node-sysinfo.txt`)

## Running

`run` provides scripts for single- and multi-node CPU and GPU runs, assuming you
are using the same dependencies (GCC, HPC-X Open MPI, and CUDA 11 on GPUs). It
exports scripts `run/cpu-runs.sh` and `run/gpu-runs.sh` that use Slurm to queue
many single- and multi-node CPU/GPU runs, generating 10 output runs for
CDS1/CDS2 and multiple numbers of nodes. We perform 10 runs for each data point
since the performance has a particularly high variance, especially on CPUs.
There are also instructions for performing individual runs; these can be done
with `cpu/singlenode.sh`, `cpu/multinode.sh`, `gpu/singlenode.sh`, and
`gpu/multinode.sh`. All of these take as arguments the input dataset (`CDS1-3`),
the tile size, the block size, and the buffer size. For runs with
`multinode.sh`, the appropriate scheduler command must be invoked on the script.
For example, to do a multi-node CPU run using Slurm:

```
$ sbatch --job-name "memxct" --output "memxct.out" --nodes 4 --ntasks-per-node 32 \
    cpu/multinode.sh CDS3 128 128 8
```

## Figures

To view the figures, open the images within the output directory. To reproduce
these figures yourself, go into the scripts folder and open the ipynb (jupyter
notebook) that corresponds to which figures you want to generate. If you are
trying to reproduce the strong scaling experiments (any of the following:
CPU-cds1, CPU-cds2, GPU-cds1, or GPU-cds2) use the file
`StrongScaling_plots.ipynb`. If attempting to create the performance plots (for
single node CPU or GPU) use `singlenode_performance(gpu_cpu)_plots.ipynb`. Additionally, if you wish to generate the memory bandwidth
bar charts, use the code found in `memoryBandwidth_plots.ipynb`. I
recommend opening any of the above in google colab, as that will ensure all dependencies
are setup and ready. The data inside
these files is populated by hand, but we calculated the numbers by manually
looking at our log files (getting them into csv using vim macros, which do not leave scripts so we cannot leave them in this artifact) and parsing what we
needed from the CSVs. These final CSVs can also be found in our figures/scripts
directory.

The eight graphs (four single-node experiments, four multi-node scaling
experiments) correspond to Figure 9 and Figure 11 from the MemXCT paper. They
are formatted very similarly, so the results may be compared directly. Notably,
the original MemXCT paper lacks GPU scaling experiments, though the curves
should be of roughly the same shape.

There are additionally two output visualizations, `recon_CDS1.png` and
`recon_CDS2.png`. These are visualizations of the output of MemXCT, tomographic
image reconstructions of the pieces of shale from which the sinogram and theta
information were measured.

Commit message:

Add some basic scripts for data extraction

ReproducibilityChallenge/doc/README.md, after:

# doc

The artifact contains scripts for installing the necessary dependencies,
downloading and setting up the competition datasets, compiling the executables,
performing runs on the executables, and aggregating results into figures. Due to
the nature of MemXCT, most of the directories contain both CPU and GPU versions.

## Setup and Compiling

To install the necessary dependencies, download the competition datasets, and
compile MemXCT, go to `compile/cpu` or `compile/gpu` and run `./build.sh`. These
assume that you are on similar hardware, running CentOS 7. If not on CentOS, see
the notes about necessary dependencies in `compile/README.md` and use the CPU or
GPU Makefile.

`compile/` additionally contains:

- a GCC vectorization report (`vectorization-report.log`)
  - Note that vectorization on AMD is very limited, so most of the vectorization
    does not fire
- system information files:
  - CPU cluster master node system information (`cpu-master-node-sysinfo.txt`)
  - CPU cluster execute node system information (`cpu-execute-node-sysinfo.txt`)
  - GPU cluster master node system information (`gpu-master-node-sysinfo.txt`)
  - GPU cluster execute node system information (`gpu-execute-node-sysinfo.txt`)

## Running

`run` provides scripts for single- and multi-node CPU and GPU runs, assuming you
are using the same dependencies (GCC, HPC-X Open MPI, and CUDA 11 on GPUs). It
exports scripts `run/cpu-runs.sh` and `run/gpu-runs.sh` that use Slurm to queue
many single- and multi-node CPU/GPU runs, generating 10 output runs for
CDS1/CDS2 and multiple numbers of nodes. We perform 10 runs for each data point
since the performance has a particularly high variance, especially on CPUs.
There are also instructions for performing individual runs; these can be done
with `cpu/singlenode.sh`, `cpu/multinode.sh`, `gpu/singlenode.sh`, and
`gpu/multinode.sh`. All of these take as arguments the input dataset (`CDS1-3`),
the tile size, the block size, and the buffer size. For runs with
`multinode.sh`, the appropriate scheduler command must be invoked on the script.
For example, to do a multi-node CPU run using Slurm:

```
$ sbatch --job-name "memxct" --output "memxct.out" --nodes 4 --ntasks-per-node 32 \
    cpu/multinode.sh CDS3 128 128 8
```

## Figures

To view the figures, open the images within the output directory. To reproduce
these figures yourself, go into the scripts folder and open the ipynb (jupyter
notebook) that corresponds to which figures you want to generate. If you are
trying to reproduce the strong scaling experiments (any of the following:
CPU-cds1, CPU-cds2, GPU-cds1, or GPU-cds2) use the file
`StrongScaling_plots.ipynb`. If attempting to create the performance plots (for
single node CPU or GPU) use `singlenode_performance(gpu_cpu)_plots.ipynb`.
Additionally, if you wish to generate the memory bandwidth bar charts, use the
code found in `memoryBandwidth_plots.ipynb`. I recommend opening any of the
above in google colab, as that will ensure all dependencies are setup and ready.
The data inside these files is populated by hand, but we calculated the numbers
by manually looking at our log files (getting them into CSVs using Vim macros)
and parsing what we needed into the CSVs. These final CSVs can also be found in
our figures/scripts directory. There are also some convenience scripts provided
for automatic data extraction, `extract-avgflops.sh` and `exract-mbw.sh`.

The eight graphs (four single-node experiments, four multi-node scaling
experiments) correspond to Figure 9 and Figure 11 from the MemXCT paper. They
are formatted very similarly, so the results may be compared directly. Notably,
the original MemXCT paper lacks GPU scaling experiments, though the curves
should be of roughly the same shape.

There are additionally two output visualizations, `recon_CDS1.png` and
`recon_CDS2.png`. These are visualizations of the output of MemXCT, tomographic
image reconstructions of the pieces of shale from which the sinogram and theta
information were measured.
